Update connection management doc (#8)
stinebuu/nest-simulator: doc/guides/connection_management.rst

   :local:
   :depth: 2

Connections between populations of neurons and between neurons and
devices for stimulation and recording in NEST are created with the
``Connect()`` function. Although each connection is internally
represented individually, you can use a single call to ``Connect()``
to create many connections at the same time. In the simplest case, the
function takes two NodeCollections containing the source and target
nodes that will be connected in an all-to-all fashion. These two first

> arguments are mandatory.

Reviewer: I'm wondering if the sentence `These two first arguments are mandatory` is necessary, as we say that the simplest case needs a source and target.

> function takes two NodeCollections containing the source and target
> nodes that will be connected in an all-to-all fashion. These two first
> arguments are mandatory.

Author: ```suggestion
function just takes two NodeCollections containing the source and
target nodes that will be connected in an all-to-all fashion.
```

Each call to the function will establish the connectivity between pre-
and post-synaptic populations according to a certain pattern or
rule. The desired pattern is specified by simply stating the rule name
as third argument to ``Connect()``, or by setting the key `rule` in
the `connectivity specification` dictionary ``conn_spec`` alongside
additional rule-specific parameters. All available patterns are
described in the section :ref:`Connection Rules <conn_rules>` below.

To specify the properties for the individual connections, a `synapse
specification` ``syn_spec`` can be given to ``Connect()``. This can

> also just be a the name of the synapse model to be used, an object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also just be the name of the synapse model to be used, an object
```

defining :ref:`collocated synapses <collocated_synapses>`, or a

> dictionary, with the mandatory key `synapse_model` as well as optional

Reviewer: `synapse_model` is not mandatory. It is possible to just change the weight and delay. Then `static_synapse` is used as model.

> dictionary, with the mandatory key `synapse_model` as well as optional

Author: ```suggestion
dictionary, with optional parameters for the connections.
```

> parameters for the connections. The ``syn_spec`` is given as the
> fourth argument to the ``Connect()`` function. Parameters like the
> synaptic weight or delay can be either set values or drawn and
> combined flexibly from random distributions. More information about
> synapse models and their parameters can be found in the section
> :ref:`Synapse Specification <synapse_spec>`.

Author: ```suggestion

The ``syn_spec`` is given as the fourth argument to the ``Connect()``
function. Parameters like the synaptic weight or delay can be either
set values or drawn and combined flexibly from random distributions.
More information about synapse models and their parameters can
be found in the section :ref:`Synapse Specification <synapse_spec>`.
```

    Connect(pre, post, conn_spec)

>     Connect(pre, post, conn_spec, syn_spec)

Reviewer: It is technically possible to call `Connect(pre, post, syn_spec=syn_spec)`, but I am not sure if we need to mention it?

Reviewer: Just noticed it is written further down! So you can ignore this comment. :)

   were set to `False` in each individual call.

The synapse specification ``syn_spec`` defaults to the synapse model
``static_synapse``. By using the keyword variant (``Connect(pre, post,
syn_spec=syn_spec_dict)``), ``conn_spec`` can be omitted in the call
to ``Connect()`` and will just take on the default value.

After your connections are established, a quick sanity check is to
look up the number of connections in the network, which can be easily
done using ``GetKernelStatus()``:

::

    print(nest.GetKernelStatus('num_connections'))

Have a look at the :ref:`inspecting_connections` section further down
to get more tips on how to examine the connections in greater detail.

.. _conn_rules:

Connection Rules
----------------

Connection rules are specified using the ``conn_spec`` parameter of
``Connect()``, which can be either just a string naming a connection
rule, or a dictionary containing a rule specification. Only connection
rules requiring no parameters can be given as strings, for all other
rules, a dictionary specifying the rule and its parameters is
required. Examples for such parameters might be in- and out-degrees,

> or the probability for establishing a connection.

Author: ```suggestion
or the probability for establishing a connection. A description of
all connection rules available in NEST is available below.
```

> 

Reviewer: Should we have a sentence like `A description of all of NEST's connection rules is given below` or something similar? I think the transition from the general information of the rules and then the rules themselves is a little abrupt, but it might just be me.

Author: :+1:

pattern in a library-specific way. The Connection Generator is handed
to ``Connect()`` under the key `cg` of the connection specification
dictionary and evaluated internally. If the Connection Generator
provides values for connection weights and delays, their respective
indices can be specified under the key `params_map`. Alternatively,
all synapse parameters can be specified using the synapse
specification argument to ``Connect()``

The following listing shows an example for using the `Connection-Set
Algebra <https://github.com/INCF/csa>`_ in NEST via the Connection
Generator Interface and randomly connects 10% of the neurons from
``A`` to the neurons in ``B``, each connection having a weight of
10000.0 pA and a delay of 1.0 ms:

::

   A = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', 100)
   B = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', 100)

   # Create the Connection Generator object
   import csa
   cg = csa.cset(csa.random(0.1), 10000.0, 1.0)

   # Map weight and delay indices to vaules from cg
   params_map = {'weight': 0, 'delay': 1}

   conn_spec_dict = {'rule': 'conngen', 'cg': cg, 'params_map': params_map}
   nest.Connect(A, B, conn_spec_dict)

> fixed indegree

Reviewer: Another problem with writing out the rules is that it looks a little strange to have only lower case letters in a header.. I don't necessarily know if we should fix this though.

Author: I think we should leave this as is for now and just wait for the new class-based syntax you are anyway working on in the background and then update this guide again (*sigh*)

     :width: 200px
     :align: center

The nodes in ``A`` are randomly connected with the nodes in ``B`` such
that each node in ``A`` has a fixed `outdegree` of ``N``.

::

    n, m, N = 10, 12, 2
    A = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', n)
    B = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', m)
    conn_spec_dict = {'rule': 'fixed_outdegree', 'outdegree': N}
    nest.Connect(A, B, conn_spec_dict)

fixed total number
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The nodes in ``pre`` are randomly connected with the nodes in ``B``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nodes in ``A`` are randomly connected with the nodes in ``B``
```

     :width: 200px
     :align: center

> The `i`th node in ``A`` is connected to the `i`th node in ``B``. The

Reviewer: This does not render properly for me on ReadTheDocs. Maybe you need a space between i and th?

> The `i`th node in ``A`` is connected to the `i`th node in ``B``. The

Author: The following is ugly, but seems to do the trick:
```suggestion
The `i`\ th node in ``A`` is connected to the `i`\ th node in ``B``. The
```

pairwise bernoulli
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For each possible pair of nodes from ``A`` and ``B``, a connection is
created with probability ``p``.

::

    n, m, p = 10, 12, 0.2
    A = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', n)
    B = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', m)
    conn_spec_dict = {'rule': 'pairwise_bernoulli', 'p': p}
    nest.Connect(A, B, conn_spec_dict)

symmetric pairwise bernoulli
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For each possible pair of nodes from ``A`` and ``B``, a connection is
created with probability ``p`` from ``A`` to ``B``, as well as a
connection from ``B`` to ``A`` (two connections in total). To use the
this rule, ``allow_autapses`` must be `False`, and ``make_symmetric``
must be `True`.

::

    n, m, p = 10, 12, 0.2
    A = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', n)
    B = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', m)
    conn_spec_dict = {'rule': 'symmetric_pairwise_bernoulli', 'p': p,

>                  'allow_autapses': False, 'make_symmetric': True}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    conn_spec_dict = {'rule': 'symmetric_pairwise_bernoulli', 'p': p,
                      'allow_autapses': False, 'make_symmetric': True}
```

---------------------

The synapse properties can be given as just the name of the desired
synapse model as a string, a ``CollocatedSynapse`` object, or a
dictionary specifying the synapse parameters in more detail.

::

    n = 10
    A = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', n)
    B = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', n)
    nest.Connect(A, B, syn_spec='static_synapse')

    syn_spec_dict = {'synapse_model': 'stdp_synapse', 'weight': 2.5, 'delay': 0.5})
    nest.Connect(A, B, syn_spec=syn_spec_dict)

Specifying the synapse properties in a single dictionary or as
:ref:`collocated synapses <collocated_synapses>` allows to draw
synaptic parameters from random distributions and combine such
parameters flexibly. In addition to the key ``synapse_model``, the
dictionary can contain specifications for ``weight``, ``delay``,
``receptor_type`` (see :ref:`receptor-types` for details) and
parameters specific to the chosen synapse model. The specification of
all parameters is optional and unspecified parameters will take on the
default values of the chosen synapse model that can be inspected using
``nest.GetDefaults(synapse_model)``.

All parameters can be either scalars, arrays or distributions

> (specified as a ``nest.Parameter``). One synapse dictionary can

Reviewer: I think I might have added the reference to `nest.Parameter`, but looking at it now I think it will confuse the reader more than adding something.

```suggestion
All parameters can be either scalars, arrays or distributions.
One synapse dictionary can
```

- Clipping, redrawing, and conditional parameters

For more information, check out the documentation on the different
:doc:`PyNEST APIs <../ref_material/pynest_apis>` or this section on
:ref:`parametrization <param_ex>`.

::

    n = 10
    A = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', n)
    B = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', n)
    syn_spec_dict = {
        'synapse_model': 'stdp_synapse',
        'weight': 2.5,
        'delay': nest.random.uniform(min=0.8, max=2.5),
        'alpha': nest.math.redraw(nest.random.normal(mean=5.0, std=1.0), min=0.5, max=10000.)
    }
    nest.Connect(A, B, syn_spec=syn_spec_dict)

In this example, the default connection rule ``all_to_all`` is used

> and connections will be using the model `stdp_synapse`. All synapses

Reviewer: Don't we usually refer to synapses as synapse model (and not just model)?

> and connections will be using the model `stdp_synapse`. All synapses

Author: ```suggestion
and connections will be using synapse model `stdp_synapse`. All synapses
```

If the synapse type is supposed to have a unique name and still use
distributed parameters, it needs to be defined in two steps:

::

    n = 10
    A = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', n)
    B = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', n)
    nest.CopyModel('stdp_synapse','excitatory',{'weight':2.5})
    syn_dict = {
        'synapse_model': 'excitatory',
        'weight': 2.5,
        'delay': nest.random.uniform(min=0.8, max=2.5),
        'alpha': nest.math.redraw(nest.random.normal(mean=5.0, std=1.0), min=0.5, max=10000.)
    }
    nest.Connect(A, B, syn_spec=syn_dict)

For further information on the available distributions see
:doc:`Random numbers in NEST <random_numbers>`.

.. _collocated_synapses:

Collocated synapses
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some modeling applications require multiple connections between the
same pairs of nodes. An example of this could be a network, where each
pre-synaptic neuron connects with a static synapse to a modulatory
receptor on the post-synaptic neuron and with a plastic synapse to a
normal NMDA-type receptor.

This type of connectivity is especially hard to realize when using
randomized connection rules, as the chosen pairs that are actually

> connected are only known internally, or have to be retrieved manually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connected are only known internally, and have to be retrieved manually
```

after the call to ``Connect()`` returns.

To ease the setup of such connectivity patterns, NEST supports a

> concept called `collocated synapses`. This allows to create several

Reviewer: ```suggestion
concept called `collocated synapses`. This allows the creation of several
```

connections between chosen pairs of neurons (possibly with different
synapse types or parameters) in a single call to ``nest.Connect()``.

To create collocated synapses, the synapse specification consists of
an object of type ``CollocatedSynapses``, whose constructor takes
synapse specification dictionaries as arguments and applies the given
dictionaries to each source-target pair internally.

::

    nodes = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', 3)
    syn_spec = nest.CollocatedSynapses({'weight': 4.0, 'delay': 1.5},
                                       {'synapse_model': 'stdp_synapse'},
                                       {'synapse_model': 'stdp_synapse', 'alpha': 3.0})
    nest.Connect(nodes, nodes, conn_spec='one_to_one', syn_spec=syn_spec)
    print(nest.GetConnections().alpha)

The example above will create 9 connections in total because there are
3 neurons times 3 synapse specifications in the ``CollocatedSynapses``

> object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
object, and the connection rule ``one_to_one`` is used.
```

  >>> print(nest.GetKernelStatus('num_connections'))
  9

In more detail, the connections have the following properties:

* 3 are of type ``static_synapse`` with `weight` 4.0 and `delay` 1.5
* 3 are of type ``stdp_synapse`` with the default value for `alpha`
* 3 are of type ``stdp_synapse`` with an `alpha` of 3.0.

If you want to connect with different :ref:`receptor types
<receptor-types>`, you can do the following:

::

    A = nest.Create('iaf_psc_exp_multisynapse', 7)
    B = nest.Create('iaf_psc_exp_multisynapse', 7, {'tau_syn': [0.1 + i for i in range(7)]})
    syn_spec_dict = nest.CollocatedSynapses({'weight': 5.0, 'receptor_type': 2},
                                            {'weight': 1.5, 'receptor_type': 7})
    nest.Connect(A, B, 'one_to_one', syn_spec_dict)
    print(nest.GetConnections().get())

You can see how many synapse parameters you have by calling `len()` on
your `CollocatedSynapses` object:

  >>> len(syn_spec)
  2

Spatially-structured networks
-----------------------------

Nodes in NEST can be created so that they have a position in two- or

> three-dimentsional space. To take full advantage of the arrangement of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
three-dimensional space. To take full advantage of the arrangement of
```

    w_{1m} & w_{2m} & \cdots & w_{nm} \\
    \end{bmatrix}

where :math:`w_{ij}` is the weight of the connection with pre-synaptic
node :math:`i` and post-synaptic node :math:`j`. In all generality, we
can assume that some weights are zero, indicating that there is no
connection at all.

As there is no support for creating connections from the whole matrix
directly, we will instead just iterate the pre-synaptic neurons and
connect one column at a time. We assume that there are :math:`n`
pre-synaptic nodes in the NodeCollection ``A`` and :math:`m`
post-synaptic nodes in ``B``. We also assume that we have our weight
matrix given as a two-dimensional NumPy array `W`, with :math:`n`
columns and :math:`m` rows.

::

    W = np.array([[0.5 , 0.0, 1.5],

>                   [1.3 , 0.2, 0.0],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    W = np.array([[0.5,  0.0, 1.5],
                  [1.3,  0.2, 0.0],
```

    nest.Connect(A3, B, syn_spec={'receptor_type': receptors['proximal_exc']})
    nest.Connect(A4, B, syn_spec={'receptor_type': receptors['soma_inh']})

In the example above, we retrieve a map of available receptors and
their IDs by extracting the `receptor_types` property from the model
defaults. This functionality is, however, only available for models
with a predefined number of receptors, while models with a variable
number of receptors usually don't provide such an enumeration.

An example for the latter are the `*_multisynapse` neuron models that
support multiple individual synaptic time constants for the different
receptors. In these models, the number of available receptors is not
predefined, but determined only by the length of the ``tau_syn``
vector that is supplied to the model instance. The following example
shows the setup and connection of such a model in more detail:

::

    A = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha')
    B = nest.Create('iaf_psc_exp_multisynapse', params={'tau_syn': [0.1, 0.2, 0.3]})

>     print(B.n_synapses)

Reviewer: Should we comment that this should be 3 because `tau_syn` has a length of 3? Right now it might not be very clear why we print it. We can also remove it of course, but I think it is useful to know that you can look this up.

>     print(B.n_synapses)

Author: ```suggestion
    print(B.n_synapses)   # This will print 3, as we set 3 different tau_syns
```

You can further examine the SynapseCollection by checking the length
of it or by printing it to the terminal. The printout will be in the
form of a table that lists source and target node IDs, synapse model,
weight and delay:

  >>>  len(conn)
       2
  >>>  print(conn)
        source   target   synapse model   weight   delay
       -------- -------- --------------- -------- -------
             1        3  static_synapse    1.000   1.000
             2        3  static_synapse    1.000   1.000

A SynapseCollection can be indexed or sliced, if you only want to
inspect a subset of the connections contained in it:

  >>>  print(conn[0:2:2])
        source   target   synapse model   weight   delay
       -------- -------- --------------- -------- -------
             1        3  static_synapse    1.000   1.000

Last, but not least, SynapseCollection can be iterated, to retrieve
one connection at a time:

  >>>  for c in conn:
  >>>      print(c.source)
       1
       2

Modifying Existing Connections
------------------------------

To modify the parameters of an existing connection, you first have to
obtain handles to them using ``nest.GetConnections()``. These handles

> can then be given as arguments to the ``nest.SetStatus()`` function.
> or by using the ``set()`` function on the SynapseCollection directly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can then be given as arguments to the ``nest.SetStatus()`` function,
or by using the ``set()`` function on the SynapseCollection directly:
```

Or use a capital O on Or :)

         'target_thread': [0, 0, 0, 0],
         'weight': [2.0, 2.0, 2.0, 2.0]}

To update a single parameter of a connection or a set of connections,
you can call the ``set()`` function of the SynapseCollection with the
keyword argument ``parameter_name``. The value for this argument can
be a single value, a list, or a ``nest.Parameter``. If a single value
is given, the value is set on all connections. If you use a list to
set the parameter, the list needs to be the same length as there are
connections in the SynapseCollection.

  >>>  conn.set(weight=[4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5])

> Similar to how you can retrieve several parameters at once with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to how you retrieve several parameters at once with the
```
